Just this year in 2026, I have
personally audited about 10 million in
ad spend across a diverse group of e-com
businesses. I've done way more of that.
Here's a screen grab of my Loom account
that I've done almost 1,000 audits that
have been recorded just in that one, and
that's before I had started doing those.
But, just in 2026, about 10 million in
ad spend I've looked at. Here are the
five biggest issues that I've seen like
in patterns or themes across
all of these audits with these e-com
brands. Let's dive in. By the way, if
you're spending money on Google Ads and
you qualify, we will do a free audit for
you just like I'm talking about and
showed you with all those audits we've
done. Or I personally did those audits.
My team has done way more than me. Go
get that audit. There will be a link in
the description below. It takes like a
minute to go fill out. Super practical.
Will absolutely help you. So, go check
that out. Okay, mistake number one that
I have found, which is crazy cuz I have
found this in like companies that do 50
million a year in revenue,
and this has been more prevalent than
you would think in 2026. So, if you're
like a Google Ads nerd or expert, you
can like, "Come on, there's no way." I'm
telling you this is true. I have found
in a lot of audits that there are a lot
of Performance Max campaigns still where
people forget to exclude brand terms
from it. You do not want your brand term
showing in your Performance Max
campaign. You want to control that in a
separate search campaign. And if it's
shopping, you can set up brand shopping.
I have videos and stuff on that on this
channel or in my school group where I do
training on all of this. But, you do not
want it inside of a normal Performance
Max build with what you think then is
new revenue and not skewed data of your
brand terms. So, add your brand terms as
a negative keyword, or add a brand
exclusion into the campaign settings.
You absolutely must do this with any of
your Performance Max builds. Do not let
brand seep through and some of these
audits it was really crazy. Like as soon
as I go through the search terms,
filtered out their brand name, the
results looked horrendous. That is
because their brand terms were getting
sucked into PMax and then from an
aggregate level looking at the campaigns
like, "Wow, look at the performance
we're getting from this. This is
amazing." You take brand out and it's
like, "Actually, this is highly
unprofitable." So, you must exclude
brand from your Performance Max
campaigns. Mistake number two, a lot of
brands are still operating with ROAS as
their North Star. It's not your North
Star. It is a guidance metric inside of
the Google Ads account to help guide
your management and optimizations. Your
North Star should be how do we continue
to grow new customers
with the unit economics that make sense
for our business. That is it. So,
getting into the back end numbers of the
business and how does that translate to
what you're doing on the front end with
an advertising platform like Google Ads,
that is what you should be doing.
We use a sheet that probably be shown
somewhere on the screen where we
actually will take and it's very simple.
This is Google Sheet. This isn't complex
stuff. We take your back end numbers
like in Shopify and we look at what are
the amount of new customers coming in
per week, per month. What is your
current in CAC? So, that would be
customer acquisition cost for new
customers only and is it profitable for
you right now? What are we seeing on the
front end with our Google Ads campaigns?
In that way, when we start increasing
ad spend or building new campaign
initiatives,
we can now cross reference
is what we're doing in the ad account
actually impacting what we care about on
the back end, which is new customer
growth that is profitable for the
business long-term with our unit
economics. A lot of these e-commerce
brands, I'm again, I'm not kidding, some
of these are highly successful
businesses,
have never thought of that. They're
like, "Oh, no, we've only just operated
on ROAS." That is a paradigm shift that
you must break through. ROAS helps guide
what you're doing in the Google Ads
account, but that shouldn't be the North
Star of your business. So, back in
metrics, overall, your Google Ads in-app
ROAS is just a guidance to what you're
doing inside of your Google Ads account.
Mistake number three, I am still seeing,
even today in 2026, a ton of over
segmentation. In one audit I did, there
was 25 different Performance Max
campaigns, and this was not a massive
account. Yeah, they spent like 20 or 30K
a month, not enough to have 25 different
Performance Max campaigns. I've done a
lot of training on why over segmentation
just kills the accounts today. You need
to consolidate your data as much as
possible. You have to have an absolutely
good reason to segment, and sometimes
there are great reasons to do that,
right? Maybe you're going after a
different country, or maybe you have
products that have absolutely different
margins. That makes sense to segment
then, right? Or it's AOV differences.
You sell $10 accessories along with
$10,000 high-ticket products. Probably
don't want to mix those together in the
same campaigns. But, you do not want to
go crazy and try to over segment every
little subcategory of your e-commerce
business. That will suffocate the
account. You cannot scale it. I promise
you, you cannot scale over segmentation.
So, go inside of your account. And by
the way, I don't care if you're spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars per
month. If you have more than like 10
PMax campaigns in your account right
now, you are more than likely over
segmented.
Take a look at your structure. Look at,
does this make sense? Why am I over
segmented or why have I segmented the
way I have? If you logically can say
here's the strategy as to why we did
that, then fine, continue on. But if
you've hit a plateau or you're not
continuing to grow, look at this.
Literally, a lot of companies that have
come to us where they're over segmented,
just by
doing and we do this strategically, so
we actually think about this. All right,
here are the campaigns we can start
consolidating together because it would
make sense. That has absolutely
increased performance. I have some case
studies on that or at least a case study
on this YouTube channel. It might be a
few years old, but I go through that
with an account that had tons of
segmentations. We consolidated it. It
works. Do not over segment. Mistake
number four, this is weird. I did not
think I would see this as often as I
have this year cuz again, we get to
speak to a lot of really good e-comm
accounts, big spenders. But for whatever
reason, I have seen several e-commerce
accounts where they're operating
campaigns with like unbelievably high
TROAS bid strategies on some of them and
they're completely suffocating the
campaign. So some of them I have seen
where they have like a 1500%
TROAS thinking they're just going to get
super high efficiency. Part of the
reason I believe this has been the case
is a lot of brands have gone through
tough times with like tariffs, costs
have gone up. Google Ads cost usually
goes up year-over-year for CPC, so to
acquire customers has gone up for a lot
of brands. So you're being squeezed at
literally every angle and I think some
of them are like, "Well, we used to get
these you know, high returns before and
we're going to just try to push our
campaigns to this high ROAS." Which by
the way, goes back to the mistake I
talked about earlier where ROAS is not
the North Star, back in metrics, back in
business metrics that align with your
unit economics of your business and that
should be new customer growth
profitably. That's your North Star.
That's how you should be operating. When
you start operating only on ROAS, you
end up with these weird things where
you're like, "Well, let's let's go
increase our TROAS and try to squeeze as
much efficiency." You starve the
account. You can't enter many auctions
when you're asking for a 1,500%
ROAS from it. Won't happen.
It's weird. Again, if you're a Google
Ads expert, you're probably thinking
there's no way, Austin, that I'm telling
you. I've seen this time after time. Not
everyone, but enough for me to talk
about it in this video. So, campaigns
that have too high of TROAS goals get
starved out. I've seen it multiple
times. Re-evaluate your bid strategies.
Your bid strategies should correlate
with your ultimate North Star, which is
in your back-end data. So, if you have
that in your account, rethink it and
come up with a new strategy. 1,500% or
1,000% or even extremely high ROAS goals
that on campaigns that are no longer
growing for you, you will you can't
scale that. You're you're just going to
suffocate over time or be plateaued. So,
go through your account. If you see
that, there's got to be a really good
reason why. Or if you're scaling at
that, then fine, continue it. But that's
rare, at least from what I'm seeing in
audits right now. All right, mistake
number five, and this is the final one
in this video,
margin and AOV being combined. So, I
it's it's kind of funny cuz I talked
about over segmentation, and then in
some of these like they over segmented,
but then it also didn't make sense. It's
like, well, you have products with 10%
margin mixed in with products that have
70% margin, and you have $10 products
mixed in with $1,000 products. None of
that makes any sense. Now, I'm not
saying go over segment. I just told you
that's not what you should do. But
strategically, you You normally want to
mix low margin with high margin or low
AOV with high AOV. Now, I'm not saying
go segment all of that. You have to
think about this. You have to look at
your business, look at your customer
journey, understand how people buy
products, but I'll tell you this from a
Google Ads per sec perspective, when you
give Google a $10 product and you give
Google a $1,000 product and then you
also have to give it a bid strategy,
right? So, you're like, I need, you
know, 300% ROAS or whatever it may be.
The bidding algorithm is going to go
after the least resistance. That's how
it is programmed. So, if it can sell $10
products easier than $1,000 products, it
will do that as long as it can also hit
your 300% ROAS. Well, that limits the
exposure then your high AOV stuff will
get and then also, let's say a high AOV
product gets a sale or two, ROAS spikes,
bidding algorithm goes crazy cuz it has
all this ROAS. It's like, oh, it wants a
300 and we're now at a 700, so let's get
more aggressive in the auctions. It can
work at times, but it's very, very
finicky. We normally recommend
strategically thinking about this, but
looking at low AOV, high AOV and how how
should those be segmented or grouped
within your account or in your
campaigns. Same with margin. I usually
don't want to mix a 10% margin product
in with something that's generating 70
because at 70% margin, I can go crazy on
my bidding. I can be super aggressive,
get into more auctions, but if I have a
10% margin product mixed in with that
and I go aggressive bidding, I'm
probably going to lose a bunch of money
then on that 10% margin product cuz I
can't bid as aggressively there. So,
don't mix that. Again, don't go crazy
and over segment. I told you not to do
that, too, but don't just group
everything into one thing with low
margin, high margin, low AOV, high AOV.
Strategically think about that. There
you go. There are the five mistakes.
Hopefully you're not making any of them.
Again, if you're spending money on
Google Ads and you qualify, go get a
free audit from my team. There will be a
link in the description below to go get
that audit. Or, if you're a Google Ads
nerd or expert, or you just want to
learn and upskill on your Google Ads
skills, I have a group. Go join that
group. I would love to see you inside. I
do ongoing trainings, Q&As, you know,
courses, the whole thing, right? So, you
get more access to me if you want. Would
love to see you inside. If not, that's
cool, too. I'll see you on the next
video.